we're now going to demonstrate how
prohibited items can be concealed on two
people one male one female the items
concealed will not cause a metal
detector to alarm we're now going to ask
our male actor to walk through the
archway metal detector which has been
set at a high degree of sensitivity as
you can see there was no alarm let's
look at where he managed to conceal the
items item number one is a perfectly
normal-looking pen capable of writing in
the normal way
however this pen conceals a pepper spray
item number two is an improvised
personal protection device in a small
cardboard folder inside the folder are
two surgical scalpel blades item number
three is known as the Blackie Collins
folder
this knife is high-impact plastic there
are no metal components item number four
is a rubber flexible kosh item number
five looks like a kiddies toy and is
called a tenor Lucci it is actually a
striking weapon combined with a garrote
item number six is known as the cat it
is a Japanese fighting knife made out of
a nonmetallic compound called Tzeitel
this time we've asked a female actor to
walk through our archway metal detector
hi a decade's game with that is it
faster yeah yeah no problem
once again the alarm was not activated
we will now explain where these items
have been concealed item number 1 a
perfectly innocent looking comb it is
manufactured from a high-impact plastic
and conceals a double-edged four-inch
blade item number 2 a knuckle duster or
hand load made from nylon purposely for
a female hand item number 3 a bracelet
or bangle made from plastic concealing
an inch long razor sharp blade item
number 4 concealed inside the bra is a
lady's lipstick when revealed it shows a
sharp knitting needle point item number
5 a wallet in the back pocket of the
trousers contains ordinary credit cards
however one credit card has a razor
blade taped to the back item number 6 a
2 component parts of an improvised
explosive device the detonator concealed
inside the bra the second component part
is approximately 2 kilos of semtex
explosive
of course it's possible to conceal items
which may cause the archway metal
detected to alarm these items would
still be difficult to detect even with a
subsequent pat-down search here a male
passenger causes an alarm excuse me sir
Joe many objections me coming out of
body search and the screener conducts a
traditional airport style pat-down
search
okay it's probably just your belt there
sir
okay thank you too much the cause of the
alarm remains unresolved
in reality the items were concealed as
follows item number one is a clutch
pencil that takes a normal pencil lead
however this example contains a steel
spike item number two is a plastic money
holder this has been adapted into a
defense weapon which contains a craft
knife item number three is a standard
wristwatch however a disc knife has been
glued to the base of the watch which
contains a razor sharp blade item number
four is a pound coin but could in fact
be any coin this has been adapted into a
defense weapon and contains a sharp
blade item number five is a homemade zip
gun capable of discharging a two two
round with a simple spring mechanism
and item number six is a commercially
manufactured plastic comb it contains a
4-inch
razor sharp double-edged blade we can
now see this on a female actor here the
female actor causes an alarm excuse me
madam I need to conduct a body search do
you have any objections no and the
screener conducts a traditional airport
style body search no threatening item is
detected and the cause of the alarm
remains unresolved
in reality the items were concealed as
follows
item number 1 is a spring-loaded steel
spike disguised as a pen item number 2
is a twin shot to two caliber pistol
item number three is called a leaf knife
it is a fashion pendant that disguises a
razor-sharp blade item number four is a
cigarette lighter which conceals a
switchblade knife number five is a mini
hand grenade and item number six is a
two two single shot CIA
stinger once again she has managed to
conceal a component